It was during that winter holiday during fifth grade that Dicky made his first foray into 'adulting' as he called it. Dicky spent that holiday with his mother and his mother's mother but not his mother's father because he was dead. His deadness was the reason Dicky was there. Dicky's mother helped her mother out with the funeral arrangements, but then the helping kept on. The more she helped, the more help Dicky's grandmother needed. So there Dicky was, in his musty, old grandmother's house - the house was old and musty, not the... well, she was too. With each passing day his grandmother grew a little less capable and his stay grew a little bit longer. 

Dicky, as you may have read in the announcement his father had taken out in the Fwillerit Town Journal, was recently inducted into the world of beardery and was finding his induction difficult to navigate in a house full of women and one dead man's ashes. Each day he attempted to slough off his two-inches of new beard growth, but he also managed to slough off layers of skin. His face had so many nicks, it looked like a couple of cats had dug into it with their claws, hung there for a period of time and refused to let go even when Dicky tried to dislodge them by jumping on a large backyard trampoline.

Feeling keenly this absence of a male figure and the (mostly) sardonic wisdom of his step-brother Alex, Dicky began talking to himself regularly. Indeed, Dicky held entire conversations with himself in multiple vocal registers. When Dicky used his higher vocal register, he spoke as himself. But the times when Dicky responded in his newfound, sonorous, manly register, he pretended to be his absent father. Dicky was in the midst of helping take his grandfather's old clothes to the curb one day while having one such conversation. His voice may have been deep, but he was still well under the six-foot height of the fence.

'Excuse me, sir,' Dicky heard an unsure voice say. 'Would you mind tossing over our ball?' Dicky was already crabby from lugging around disintegrating cardboard boxes full of what appeared to be 500 of the same maroon sweater. He didn't want to throw a lost ball back to these children so that they could have fun with it. He wanted them to feel the pain of 500 maroon sweaters packed in damp cardboard.

'WHAT!' Dicky stormed and sputtered in his (at this moment) man-voice. 'Learn some AIM!' With that Dicky pounded and shook the fence until he heard the children gasp and run away. Soon after some guilt set in, but not without a slightly greater feeling of power winding through his core. He tossed the ball over and decided only to think about it again in his most private moments.

The next day Dicky was dragging seven boxes of very old, very worn leather shoes to the curb again and spotted the same ball in the yard. 'Nnnnnguuah!' he raged as he slammed the fence. He heard shocked cries and the tight knot in his chest loosened a bit. This time he would make his point. He ran inside to grab a large pair of scissors so he could puncture the ball before sending it sailing over the fence. His heart relaxed a bit more imagining the disappointment on the neighbor children's faces.

The next two days were silent. The yard remained undisturbed which _did_ disturb Dicky. A few times he contemplating slamming the fence and screaming for no reason, but he much preferred anger of the righteous kind. So Dicky waited, his heart tightening up each hour like a spring being wound. He stared out the window, his breath fogging up the glass and making a peanut butter-smelling fog grow between him and the window. On the third day, Dicky just lay on the grass, staring at the sky and hoping a ball would just fall upon him.

Maybe they couldn't afford a new ball, maybe there would never be another ball again and Dicky's heart would snap from the strain. On day four Dicky walked to the mailbox and on the walk back he saw it. There, on his grandmother's tin roof, was a shining orange ball. All his time spent waiting was not in vain, Dicky had a plan ready. 

He ate dinner with his mother and grandmother as he had every night. He refused to talk, worried that evil glee would bubble out if he said even one word. He waited until he could plausibly claim to be going to bed, and then stuffed the bed with pillows. He pulled on a too-loose maroon sweater and a too-long pair of khaki pants. Into a too-large pair of shoes he stuffed some yellowed socks, followed by his feet. Dicky then ventured outside. He dragged a very tall ladder from the shed (with only three breaks to catch his breath), and ascended it to the holy object. 

The leather shoes had terrible purchase on the ladder rungs, but it didn't matter. His hands hit corrugated tin and he was able to heave himself up onto the roof fully. He stood panting, minus one shoe, staring down at the orb at his feet. He would wait here with it for dawn. He would wait until the children arrived and he would scream and destroy it. Dicky would wait. He had been waiting.

At some point the fervor turned into red jello in his veins and then there was a bird waking him up. Dew had puddled in between the roof ridges and worked its way into the yarn of Dicky's sweater which was now releasing certain odors. Dicky's tummy rumbled, but he had waited and he would wait.

Awake now, Dicky shivered in his sweater and pants and shoes, all too large! Still Dicky waited, chilled in maroon. At last Dicky saw them approaching from down the street. He lay down motionless, feeling the cold corrugate against his cheek. He saw them ring the doorbell next door and knew it was his moment. He picked up the ball, stood to scream and slipped. 

He slipped on the dew, wearing only one shoe and tumbled down ball and all. Dicky hit the ground which rattled all his bones and shot a bolt of fire into his arm. Oh, but the screams! He heard the children screaming bloody murder, that they had murdered the man next door with their bright orange ball. Dicky was sore but smiling.